1. define a function and calling a function in python.
2. working on multiple files.
3. List.. and dictionary
4. we know how to create a class, how to create an object
of the class.

everybody should be comfortable with list and dictionary.
generics. again visit some datastructure based code.

Lamda
1. we are defining a function
2. we are going to assign this function to some other function.

	f2(f1);
we are caller of f2.
we are definer of f1.
f2 tells give me a function which takes X as input
and Y as return type and we have to write f1 exactly
like that only... if we dont write we will get into logical
problems..

whenever we see lamda understand it is a style of writing
function ( we do two things)
1. create the function
2. assign the function.

definition of function  --X person
assignment of function  -- X Person
calling of the function  --X person..
ok lamda was needed at all here..


definition of function  --X person
assignment of function  -- X Person
calling of the function  --Y person..
ok lamda was needed at all here..

Y person is telling X person hey I want do some job.. which
you like but then you must give me a function which I am asking
for ...

Y person is givng you a sort function.. X person likes sort
but Y person is going to tell X hey look to sort you must
give a me function which returns pos if first thing
is bigger than second thing or neg if first thing is smaller than
second thing and 0 if you both things are equal.

you will see lamdas used more during sorting... thread programming
if you generalize the scenario as X..

X scenario will have two people.
person 1 will define and asssing a function while calling
function of person 2, person2 will call this assingned function.


numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] 
squared_numbers = map(lambda x: x ** 2, numbers)

#--start
def doubleit(x):
   return x;
#end
ok=map(doubleit,numbers)
print(ok);

map is telling hey look i need an list.. ok you have given
i needa  function which will take each element from the list and return
something and logic is yours

lamda..

map -- written by person Y
we are person X.
person Y is expecting us to write a function..
we are interested in map function
so we define a fucnction all the map function by supplying our
function as an input argument..

what we did.
1. we defined the function
2. we assigned the function
3. calling of function we dont do, somebody else will do it
under a particular circumstance..


even_numbers = filter(lambda x: x % 2 == 0, numbers)

filter function is not ours.
how many input argumetns or filter function.
2
1. function which takes something and returns a Boolean who will
decide this we..
2. second argument is a list..

map is utility thru we can take each element of the list and transform
it whatever other thing we want..

return an iterator that applies function to every item of iterable, 
yielding the results.

returns a group of things which are navigable.
applies function to every item of iterable,   -- your input needs
to be a function and group of things on each element of this
group things function is applied

yielding the results. --we get something called generator.. on need
basis you will get the value

we do two things in lamda expression..
1. define
2. assign..

calling will be done by the other person which we called.



1. we have a list..
2. we want to get a subset of it..  --original list
3. on what basis you want the subset to be created.. has to be mentioned
to the system.. lamda or function
4. return type will be the new list..

lamda is shortcut for creating a function and assigning it.. practically it.
strict definition..

point of view.. convience .. lamda

why give names to function which we are not going to call.
no difference..
lamda could be slower.

lamda expression see where it is used, it will used as input
to some function... that function which you are calling and passing
lamda ... will decide what lamda expression should return

y=map(doubleit,x)
y=filter(freaky,x)
map and filter both take lamda expression map expects   a function
to return some value..
filter expect the function to return some Boolean only...

10 element list.
you use map and return type is a list which contains 10 elements only.


10 element list
you use filter, return type can be max 10, 0 or any number between 0 and 10
depending on how many elements in the list satisfied that condition..








what is Lamda.
1. Lamda is a way thru which you write a function and assign in a function
in a shorter way..
2. where to use it... many functions written by other person expect
function as input argument...this function is expected to ...tell
the ready made function what to do.. 




products = [(101, 'Widget'), (102, 'Gadget'), (103, 'Doodad'), (104, 'Thingamajig')]

sorted_products = sorted(products, key=lambda x: x[1])

look we are sorting some tuples.. 
sorting needs a criteria...
sorted utility is telling hey look tell what do you want me to sort
, second argument on what criteria..






print(f"Products sorted by name: {sorted_products}")











y=map(doubleit,x)
map is telling i will take each element of your list and call your function
to get new value and that value i will put into list..


1. lamda expression -- convenience thing...

sorted_products = sorted(products, key=lambda x: x[0])
sorting needs two things.
1. group
2. criteria on which you are sorting..
criteria on which you are sorting is given key=lamda expression..

sorted(student_objects, key=lambda student: student.age)
sorted(whichds,key=lamda datatypeofyourds:what is field)

x=["hello","hi"]
filter this list if length of the string is more than 3.
y=filter(lamdaexpression,x)
list(y) // we should get only hello

with lamda and without lamda..

 for product, rate in production_rates.items():
you get both key and value with respect to a dictionary..



value < threshold for value in inventory.values()

comprehension with respect to list or dictionary
shortcut way to write syntax  for selecting each element in the ds
and applying some logic..

comprehension with any DS.

1. we have a ds it contains some elements.
2. we want to take each element from the ds.
3. apply some logic on it..
we are doing it with lamda expression also, now you can do with
list comprehension.

lamda expression the way we have used it..we are able to use it provided
somebody is allowing to use it.. do you agree.

There is a function whose input argument is not a function..
can you pass lamda expressions here.

filter case we passed lamda expression, because filter told hey look
if you pass me function, i will call it.

lamda expression.. 
1. think of a ready made whose input is another function
2. I am calling this ready made function and we are assigning and defining
a function at the same time.

X comprehension.
1. we are picking each element from ds
2. apply some logic (filtering, map)

1. python properly
2. heard there is something comprehension.. 
you want to create a new ds.
based on existing ds. applying some logic..


1 i read from place X
2. look at official the people tell about that topic.

Task

1. tasked, taskname,status,priority,location

sort the array of objects..
newlist =sorted(group,key=criteria)

figuring sort and filtering on any ds is an important skill.


1. tasked, taskname,status,priority,location

create a list of tasks.( class based)

figure out a logic for sorting on taskname
sorting on priority
sorting on location..
figure out how to filter tasks based on location..

we will make a summary

1. lamda expressions --  there are two people
person who defines and assigns function
person who is going to call the function.

2. lamda .. style of coding.
we define the function and assing the function in the same line.

3. comprehension..
3.1 i have a ds i can pick each element from the ds..
3.2 do some logic on it.
3.3 hopefully create a new ds.


if you have tasks and you want to filter some tasks based on critiera
1. comprehension.
2. filter function..

sorting..
restrict yourself to lists.. and sorting operation on the dictionary is
not a relevant word to talk about..

Datastructures.. keep in mind operations..

Decorators..
1. think of two people.

License , passport..
1. think of person who is going to to issue.  == X person
2. person who is taking the licencse knows the benefit of taking the license..
==Y person
3. he knows when the benefit comes.==Z person

Decorators..
1 X and Z are friends..  == same compoany.
2. Y is another person..

X and Z are providers of the decorator and they give benefit
to us when have the decorator.

Y is a person who is using the decorator and he knows
what benefit he gets and when...

most of times we are users of the decorator..
1. what benefit you get and when... I dont know this, dont touch decorators.


do i know benefit of the below line.. I dont know.. ok dont use the decorator
delete it.
@app.get("/items/", dependencies=[Depends(verify_token), Depends(verify_key)])

decorators can come at various levels..

99.99% cases we are users of decorators..
so as user of decorator.

ask yourself the question,, what is benefit you are getting..
when... I dont know the benefit ok dont use the decorator..

you have a code.
somebody has told i have a decorator if you use it, you get this benefit.
now ask you like the benefit, if yes.. use the decorator..

zoom out... project architecture is important
zoom in ... being good at varibles and functions is important

kids world decorator..
who created the decorator ... I
who is giving the benfit .. I
who is using the decorator .. I
so many I.. illness.

standard is not great standard if I am only person using it.
getting other people to use it.. only then standard looks great..

1.lamda expression
2. light story on comprehension..
3. why decorators.. and how to use decorators..

we can pass function as an input argument to another function..

Thank you..






































































