zoom out...
0. intent first , language next..
1. loyalty is towards project and not technology.-- respect architectures..
2. tolerating uncertainty..lower he bp level first.. writing a small program( poc)
to clarify the syntax or concept.
3. generalize our learning.. so that we can remember less. 

zoom in...
programmer..
a programmer should convert English into funtions and varaibles fitting into an architecture.
a programmer needs to be 5/5 in variables and functions.

	minimum for knowing a programming language  ?
	1. documentation standard (1/5)
	2. variables, data type, scope, casting rules (5/5)
	3. runtime error handling and quantification (5/5)
	4. how to use string handling and date handling (2/5)
	5. how to use Datastructures like Arrays and Dictionaries.. (2/5)
	6. how to measure time taken, unit testing, profiling of code ( 0.000001/5)

rules are guidelines we dont need to become a fan of them but violating rules
should be explained why we violated..

we should as far as possible avoid participating in project funerals..
hardest question in the project, what will change, what will not change.. if we dont know
this funeral has began..

	infants like adjectives.
	kids like numbers.
	adults know numbers need interpretation also.

	super scary word called "In depth"
	1. in depth word makes sense if you can show thru the code how it impacts my coding..
	2. if you cannot show thru code, how that impacts I dont wnat to know about about it.

	free time spend time on architectures..

	event handling..
	what is an event?

	intent is to apply and no to tell somebody I know this..
	
	today collecting information has lost value. today the
	question is what you do with the information collected
	show me how it is useful to me..
	
	explosion of code generating tools .. chatgpt..

	-----------------------------------------------

	zoom in.

	function.  (5/5)
	
	1. define
	   1.1 how is going to call it.
	   1.2 how will you tell the caller that function succeed or failed.
	   1.3 justify input and return type usage..			
	2. call a function
	   2.1 open documentation...	
	3. assign a function  , it is 100% understood you are not going to call the function.
	   3.1 a mechanism to pass a function as variable to another function..


	can you give an example of assignment happening without using =
	it always when you pass arguments to function

	difference between kid and adult
	kids are afraid of attending interviews
	adults are afraid of conducting interviesws.

	variable.
	1. data type
		data type tells what operations i can perform on things which are stored
	2.  scope.

	how do you know a function is complex function or a simple function..?
	cyclmatic complexity...number of conditions keep it minimum.. 3.

	better way of learning any technology is
	3:7
	3 is your own code..
	7 is open  other person code.
	
	os is the boss.
	anything which does not talk with the os directly is bound to be slow.

	in any real life project irrespective of language there will be multiple files
	we have to learn with deal with it..

	Datastructures..
	1. group of things.
	2. some operations to perform
	3. we think how to store it.
	
	challenge in Datastructure usage is not in selecting names but deciding
 	the operations first.

	normal notebook  -- linear  -- search is not effective,,
	indexed notebook  --non linear -- search is effective, branching will be there..
	
	what is Tree?
	connected graph without cycles.

	I want to add some items and print it...
	which ds would you prefer.
	Array
	Dictionary..

	anybody tells Datastructrues.
	1. what operations you plan to do on that group.. tel this first tell this first..
	2. then pick one from the library.
	3. cross did you do the operations..

	concept is not a function of time, syntax is.
	dictionary most commonly used operation is give a key and extract the value..

	what all operations we did with the ds.
	Dictionary..
	1. get operation.. ie get the value specifying the key...

	
	new people
	copy paste 3 examples on
	range.. 
	dictionary
	array.



	old familiar.
	try to understand the examples in the given code..
	assignment.txt attempt problemstatement1 and problemstatement2
	

	write a function that takes a number and returns 5 mutiples of the number.

	test

	2  return should 2,4,6,8,10	
	3  return should 3,6,9,12,15

	List.. array --linear ds.
	1. add, view all, sort, linear filtering  

	Dictionary  
	key :value 
	key will be some inbuilt type...
	value will be some project specific type.. Employee, Task...
	what operations.
	1. get ... ie get the value specify the key.
	2. iterate thru the dictionary...
	3. remove the key and value...
	4. get only keys , get only values.. in some cases..

	Set..
	non linear DS which does not have duplicates...

	read only cousins...

	dont cling to variable names... 


      write a function that takes an array filled with random numbers 1 to 100
      and return the sum of odd values and even values..

      input argument to function --- Array filled with random numbers.
      expected return value from the function, oddnum, evensnum

if anybody has completed it, please share your screen..
	
      	

	

	


	



	





	 	














	

	




		
	






	






